---
layout: archive
title: "Statement of Purpose"
permalink: /SOP/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}

<br>
My interest in computer science and mathematics can be traced back to my early childhood. During high school, I won awards in mathematics and computer programming competitions. At the age of 16, I attended the School of the Gifted Young at the University of Science and Technology of China (USTC). During my undergraduate studies, I realized the importance of mathematics in computer research. I excelled in all my math courses and self-studied advanced mathematical theories such as matrix analysis and convex optimization.

In my first year of college, I participated in a course project of Imperial College London on cloud computing and machine learning systems. This was my first touch with machine learning. Under the guidance of Prof. Peter Piezutch, I explored parallelization efficiency of decision trees, learned about the application of distributed computing in machine learning, initially learned inexplicable models like MLP, and gained knowledge about writing academic papers. This experience arouse my interest of machine learning.

In my second year of college, I joined the laboratory of Prof. Lian Defu at USTC, where I independently worked on a research project on defense against poisoning attacks. I encountered various difficulties in the process. For instance, there was a challenge in simultaneously achieving bulk processing and storage savings during the inference phase. I struggled with this problem until I tried breaking down the summation terms and using matrix multiplication instead, simplifying the prediction equation and improving algorithm efficiency while saving storage space. Another impressive challenge was in the theoretical part of the paper, which required strict derivation of the adaptability of the trained model on a new dataset after removing some data points. Its difficulty lies in the conjectures about mathematical theories, which experienced a long period of stagnation. I eventually speculated that the theory of gradient unlearning could be the key to solving the problem. Through extensive reading of relevant literature and exploration of mathematical theorems, I completed the mathematical proof for the paper. In August 2023, I submitted this paper as the first author to the AAAI conference. The difficulty I overcame in completing this paper enhanced my confidence in pursuing future research. 

The next research shifted from a centralized setting to decentralized learning systems. In February 2023, I collaborated with Prof. Neil Gong from Duke University to research effective inference attacks for data reconstruction under byzantine robust aggregation rules. The intuition of this research was we discovered that current defense mechanisms could hardly mitigate privacy attacks based on GAN. I started contemplating the reasons behind this phenomenon and shifted my work towards defending against this attack and proposed a new aggregation rule that outperformed existing baselines. After designing this method, I conducted extensive experiments, wrote the paper. I submitted this paper as the co-first author to WWW in October 2023. The most difficult part of this research topic is that GANs are quite unstable for colored datasets, where the DCGAN generator only producing completely noisy images. I went through many attempts and finally adjusted the hyperparameters based on the Nash equilibrium theory in the field of generative models, enabling the GAN to generate clear images. Solving this problem made me realize that successful scientific research may require cross-disciplinary approaches. 

Under Prof. Gong's guidance, I started another research then. We aimed to achieve efficient poisoning attacks on federated recommendation with an extremely low proportion of fake users, no local training data, and no information about the rating matrix. The significance of this research lies in the fact that, compared to previous methods of attack, our approach has greatly improved practicability. One of my major contributions is that I set up a federated recommendation framework and proposed my unique methodology based on estimating popular items after continuous exploration. Such creative achievements have greatly inspired me and raised my expectations for my future path in scientific research. I submitted this paper as the co-first author to WWW in October 2023.

Above research experiences are all within the realm of applied machine learning. From the perspective of applicability, I think a promising research is the security of LLM. However, I'm not content with exploration on the application level alone and harbor a deeper desire to investigate the principles behind it. I am currently conducting a research to improve the TRADES algorithm using coreset under the guidance of Prof. Hu Ding in USTC, attempting to study machine learning through fundamental and purely theoretical methods.

Due to time constraints during my undergraduate studies, my research primarily focused on trusted machine learning and learning theory. However, my passion for learning extends beyond this specific field. I am actively seeking knowledge in other areas of artificial intelligence such as computer vision, high dimensional data, generative models, differential privacy, large language models, etc. I believe exploring multiple directions and inspiring mutually will broaden my depth and breadth of my future scientific research. 

In both my studies and personal life, I have always approached challenges with optimism and passion. While facing countless difficulties, I have never complained or stagnated. My future goal is to become an excellent researcher, engaged in truly valuable and innovative work. I believe I can make outstanding contributions in the field of computer science research.
